README.md, before:

# Coq Formalization
Taming the Merge Operator: A Type-Directed Operational Semantics Approach

- [simple/coq/](./simple/coq) for Coq formalization of the λ<sub>i</sub> calculus
- [simple/spec/](./simple/spec) for Ott specification of the λ<sub>i</sub> calculus
- [plus/coq/](./plus/coq) for Coq formalization of the λ<sub>i</sub><sup>+</sup> calculus
- [plus/spec/](./plus/spec) for Ott specification of the λ<sub>i</sub><sup>+</sup> calculus
- [pair_simple](./pair_simple) for the λ<sub>i</sub> calculus plus product types and pairs


## Building Instructions

Our Coq proofs are verified in **Coq 8.13.1**. We rely on two Coq libraries:
[`metalib`](https://github.com/plclub/metalib) for the locally nameless
representation in our proofs; and
[`LibTactics.v`](http://gallium.inria.fr/~fpottier/ssphs/LibTactics.html),
which is included in the directory.


### Prerequisites

1. Install Coq 8.13.1.
   The recommended way to install Coq is via `OPAM`. Refer to
   [here](https://coq.inria.fr/opam/www/using.html) for detailed steps. Or one could
   download the pre-built packages for Windows and MacOS via
   [here](https://github.com/coq/coq/releases/tag/V8.13.1). Choose a suitable installer
   according to your platform.

2. Make sure `Coq` is installed (type `coqc` in the terminal, if you see "command
   not found" this means you have not properly installed Coq), then install `Metalib`:
   1. Open terminal
   2. `git clone https://github.com/plclub/metalib`
   3. `cd metalib/Metalib`
   4. Make sure the version is correct by `git checkout 597fd7d0c93eb159274e84a39d554f10f1efccf8` (other versions may also work)
   5. `make install`

### Build and Compile the Proofs

1. Enter either [simple/coq/](./simple/coq)  or [plus/coq/](./plus/coq)directory.

2. Type `make` in the terminal to build and compile the proofs.

3. You should see something like the following (suppose `>` is the prompt):
   ```sh
   coq_makefile -arg '-w -variable-collision,-meta-collision,-require-in-module' -f _CoqProject -o CoqSrc.mk
   COQDEP VFILES
   COQC LibTactics.v
   COQC syntax_ott.v
   COQC rules_inf.v
   COQC Subtyping_inversion.v
   COQC Infrastructure.v
   COQC Deterministic.v
   COQC Type_Safety.v
   ```

4. `syntax_ott.v`, `rules_inf.v`, and `rules_inf2.v` (in [simple/coq/](./simple/coq)) are generated by Ott and LNgen. Run `make ottclean` to remove them.
Then `make` can reproduce the code (with Ott and LNgen installed).

## Proof Structure

- `syntax_ott.v` contains the locally nameless definitions of the calculi and Dunfield's calculus.
It involves the typing and semantics of the calculi, the semantics of Dunfield's calculus, and the typing of
lambdai (icfp2016). One unified definition of type is used. The last two share the same set of expressions (dexp).
- `rules_inf.v` (and `rules_inf2.v`) contains the `lngen` generated code.
- `Infrastructure.v` contains the type systems of the calculi and some lemmas.
- `Subtyping_inversion.v` contains some properties of the subtyping relation.
- `Key_properties.v` constains some necessary lemmas about typed reduction, top-like relation and disjointness.
- `Deterministic.v` contains the proofs of the determinism property.
- `Type_Safety.v` contains the proofs of the type preservation and progress properties.
- `dunfield.v` (in [simple/coq/](./simple/coq)) contains the proofs of the soundness theorem with respect to Dunfield's calculus.
- `icfp.v`(in [simple/coq/](./simple/coq)) contains the proofs of the completeness theorem with respect to lambdai (icfp2016).

Commit message:

add ott and lngen in readme

README.md, after:

This is the Coq formalization of paper `Taming the Merge Operator`, which
will appear in the Journal of Functional Programming.

# Code Structure

- [simple/coq/](./simple/coq) for Coq formalization of the λ<sub>i</sub> calculus
- [simple/spec/](./simple/spec) for Ott specification of the λ<sub>i</sub> calculus
- [plus/coq/](./plus/coq) for Coq formalization of the λ<sub>i</sub><sup>+</sup> calculus
- [plus/spec/](./plus/spec) for Ott specification of the λ<sub>i</sub><sup>+</sup> calculus
- [pair_simple](./pair_simple) for the λ<sub>i</sub> calculus plus product types and pairs


## Building Instructions

Our Coq proofs are verified in **Coq 8.13.1**. We rely on two Coq libraries:
[`metalib`](https://github.com/plclub/metalib) for the locally nameless
representation in our proofs; and
[`LibTactics.v`](http://gallium.inria.fr/~fpottier/ssphs/LibTactics.html),
which is included in the directory.


### Prerequisites

0. `ott` and `lngen` are used to generate `syntax_ott.v` and `rules_inf.v`.
   You can run all code without them installed unless you want to modify the definitions.
   In that cases you can refer to the instructions:

    - [Ott](https://github.com/ott-lang/ott)
    - [LNgen](https://github.com/plclub/lngen/blob/master/README.txt)

    If you install lngen via cabal and want to be able to call it directly,
    you may have to change your $PATH, e.g., `export PATH=$HOME/.cabal/bin:$PATH`.

1. Install Coq 8.13.1.
   The recommended way to install Coq is via `OPAM`. Refer to
   [here](https://coq.inria.fr/opam/www/using.html) for detailed steps. Or one could
   download the pre-built packages for Windows and MacOS via
   [here](https://github.com/coq/coq/releases/tag/V8.13.1). Choose a suitable installer
   according to your platform.

2. Make sure `Coq` is installed (type `coqc` in the terminal, if you see "command
   not found" this means you have not properly installed Coq), then install `Metalib`:
   1. Open terminal
   2. `git clone https://github.com/plclub/metalib`
   3. `cd metalib/Metalib`
   4. Make sure the version is correct by `git checkout 597fd7d0c93eb159274e84a39d554f10f1efccf8` (other versions may also work)
   5. `make install`

### Build and Compile the Proofs

1. Enter either [simple/coq/](./simple/coq)  or [plus/coq/](./plus/coq)directory.

2. Type `make` in the terminal to build and compile the proofs.

3. You should see something like the following (suppose `>` is the prompt):
   ```sh
   coq_makefile -arg '-w -variable-collision,-meta-collision,-require-in-module' -f _CoqProject -o CoqSrc.mk
   COQDEP VFILES
   COQC LibTactics.v
   COQC syntax_ott.v
   COQC rules_inf.v
   COQC Subtyping_inversion.v
   COQC Infrastructure.v
   COQC Deterministic.v
   COQC Type_Safety.v
   ```

4. `syntax_ott.v`, `rules_inf.v`, and `rules_inf2.v` (in [simple/coq/](./simple/coq)) are generated by Ott and LNgen. Run `make ottclean` to remove them.
Then `make` can reproduce the code (with Ott and LNgen installed).

## Proof Structure

- `syntax_ott.v` contains the locally nameless definitions of the calculi and Dunfield's calculus.
It involves the typing and semantics of the calculi, the semantics of Dunfield's calculus, and the typing of
lambdai (icfp2016). One unified definition of type is used. The last two share the same set of expressions (dexp).
- `rules_inf.v` (and `rules_inf2.v`) contains the `lngen` generated code.
- `Infrastructure.v` contains the type systems of the calculi and some lemmas.
- `Subtyping_inversion.v` contains some properties of the subtyping relation.
- `Key_properties.v` constains some necessary lemmas about typed reduction, top-like relation and disjointness.
- `Deterministic.v` contains the proofs of the determinism property.
- `Type_Safety.v` contains the proofs of the type preservation and progress properties.
- `dunfield.v` (in [simple/coq/](./simple/coq)) contains the proofs of the soundness theorem with respect to Dunfield's calculus.
- `icfp.v`(in [simple/coq/](./simple/coq)) contains the proofs of the completeness theorem with respect to lambdai (icfp2016).
